# TMDb-dataset-Analysis
The current project aims at analyzing the TMDb movies dataset. This data set contains information about more than 10,000 movies collected from The Movie Database (TMDb), including movies popularity and revenue. The project included summary statistics as well as visuals describing the features. The majority of the features have different mean and median indicating the existence of outliers. Thus, this analysis is limited to not dealing with outliers. Histograms show that the majority of the features have skewed distribution. The data information showed that several features have missing values. After excluding columns not considered in the analysis, observations with missing values were dropped. This is another limitation for the analysis as there are better ways to deal with missing values like filling them with mean/median. The exploratory data analysis reveals the following: 1) Movies revenues are higher in certain months of the year especially June and May. 2) Higher revenues are positively correlated with some factors (e.g. popularity, budget, runtime, and vote_count) 3) Digging deeper into the relation between revenues and budget, the analysis reveal an increasing trend of revenue and budget across decades. 4) Movies' popularity seem to be more positively correlated with the number of votes rather than vote-average. 5) The movies in the dataset tend to receive higher number of votes and more popularity overtime, while the vote_average of the movies tends to be constant overtime.
